WIP: Update ont-genexis-ft-g2110c.md (#55)
hack-gpon/hack-gpon.github.io: _ont/ont-genexis-ft-g2110c.md

# Useful Commands

Change GPON Serial Number:

> 

Reviewer: add ```sh

set GponSn GNXS05542100
save env

> 

Reviewer: add ```

Change ONT IP Address:

> flash set LAN_IP_ADDR 192.168.1.1

Reviewer: add ```sh

> 

Reviewer: add ```

# Useful Commands

## Getting/Setting the ONT's S/N

{% include alert.html content="The GPON S/N can only be changed via U-Boot console" alert="Note"  icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

> Attach TTL adapter to UART console (see Internal photo - CM3 header, for pinout), open a terminal emulator (like Putty or Teraterm), power on the ONT and `CTRL+C` until you see the following prompt:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attach a TTL adapter to the UART console port (see Internal photo - CM3 header, for pinout), open a terminal emulator (like Putty or Teraterm), power on the ONT and press `CTRL+C` until you see the following prompt:
```

```sh
9601D#
```

> On that console you can type the following commands to change the serial number of ONT:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On that console you can type the following commands to change the GPON serial number:
```

```sh
set GponSn GNXS05542100
saveenv
reset
```

You can check if the serial number was correclty changed using the following command:

```sh
# diag gpon get serialnumber
GNXS05542100
```

> ## Change IP address

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Changing the IP address
```

```sh
# /etc/scripts/flash get LAN_IP_ADDR
LAN_IP_ADDR=192.168.1.1
# /etc/scripts/flash set LAN_IP_ADDR 192.168.1.1
 ```

## Getting/Setting the ONT's PLOAM password

{% include alert.html content="The PLOAM password is stored in ASCII format" alert="Info" icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

```sh
# /etc/scripts/flash get GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD
GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD=AAAAAAAAAA
# /etc/scripts/flash set GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD AAAAAAAAAA
```
Looks like that Genexis has also included an U-Boot variable to store the PLOAM. On currently known firmwares (5.6.1 and 5.7.0) is not readed by `omci_app` daemon.
If you want to be future proof ready, put your PLOAM also on U-Boot env using the following command on the OS shell:

```sh
# nv setenv ploampwd 1234567890
ploampwd=1234567890
```

# Known Bugs

- ONT Serial Number can only be changed via U-Boot console, if you try to change it from the OS you will receive an error

> - Most of value on XML configuration are not readed by `omci_app` deamon, so changing parameters like `PON_VENDOR_ID`, `OLT_MODE` or `SW_VER*` are not supported. A the moment this unit cannot be fully spoofed like other Realtek's ONT with stock Luna SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Most of the values inside the XML configuration file are not read by the `omci_app` deamon, so changing parameters like `PON_VENDOR_ID`, `OLT_MODE` or `SW_VER*` is not supported. At the moment this unit cannot be fully spoofed like other Realtek's ONT with stock Luna SDK
```

# Useful Commands

{% include alert.html content="Some variables are write-protected, you need to unlock them before proceed" alert="Info" icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

Use the following command to unlock write-protected variables:

```sh
# nv setenv ProtectEnv 0
```

## Getting/Setting the ONT's S/N

> {% include alert.html content="If your serial has letters after the VID (ex. ZTEGAAA01234), put them in lower case (ex. ZTEGaaa01234)" alert="Info" icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% include alert.html content="If your serial number has letters after the Vendor ID (e.g. ZTEGAAA01234), put them in lower case (e.g. ZTEGaaa01234)" alert="Info" icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}
```

```sh
# nv setenv GponSn ZTEGaaa01234
```

> Reboot ONT to apply the change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reboot the ONT to apply any changes
```

You can check if the serial number was correclty changed using the following command:

```sh
# diag gpon get serialnumber
ZTEGaaa01234
```

## Changing the Hardware Version

```sh
# nv setenv HV G2110CE2V1D0
```
Reboot ONT to apply the change

## Changing the Equipment ID

```sh
# nv setenv ProdName FT-G2110C-2.5G
```
Reboot ONT to apply the change

## Changing the IP address
```sh
# /etc/scripts/flash get LAN_IP_ADDR
LAN_IP_ADDR=192.168.1.1
# /etc/scripts/flash set LAN_IP_ADDR 192.168.1.1
 ```

## Getting/Setting the ONT's PLOAM password

{% include alert.html content="The PLOAM password is stored in ASCII format" alert="Info" icon="svg-info" color="blue" %}

```sh
# /etc/scripts/flash get GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD
GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD=AAAAAAAAAA
# /etc/scripts/flash set GPON_PLOAM_PASSWD AAAAAAAAAA
```

> Looks like Genexis has also included an U-Boot variable to store the PLOAM. On currently known firmwares (5.6.1 and 5.7.0) it is not read by the `omci_app` daemon.

Author: ATM is the only one used. The Uboot env is there but omci_app doesn't read it, may be in the next update... who knows :)

> Looks like Genexis has also included an U-Boot variable to store the PLOAM. On currently known firmwares (5.6.1 and 5.7.0) it is not read by the `omci_app` daemon.

Reviewer: ok

> If you want to be future proof, put your PLOAM also on U-Boot env using the following command on the OS shell:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to be future proof, put your PLOAM also on U-Boot env using the following command in the OS shell:
```

```sh
# nv setenv ploampwd 1234567890
ploampwd=1234567890
```

## Spoofing firmware version

> {% include alert.html content="To change this information you need to upload a modified firmware. Do it at your own risk!" alert="Warning" icon="svg-warning" color="red" %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% include alert.html content="To change this data you need to upload a modified firmware. Do it at your own risk!" alert="Warning" icon="svg-warning" color="red" %}
```

- Download the modified firmware from [here](https://mega.nz/file/yspFRTJT#JjeDS7NwLZxCzFklQGMJVIuPawo8utQRGbMGEXQv84M) md5:  `91946ad8aada2e469b7fff1d38ee7474`

> - Logon on OS shell of the ONT and run this command: `iptables -F`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Logon on the OS shell of the ONT and run this command: `iptables -F`
```

> - Open a web browser and go to `http://192.168.1.1/upgrade.asp` or `http://192.168.100.1/upgrade.asp`, enter same credentials used for telnet session, select the modified firmware and click on `Upgrade`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open a web browser and go to `http://192.168.1.1/upgrade.asp` or `http://192.168.100.1/upgrade.asp`, enter the same credentials used for telnet session, select the modified firmware and click on `Upgrade`
```

> - After upgrade is done and you are able to reach the ONT via telnet, logon back and run these commands to change firmware version on both banks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once the upgrade is done and you are able to reach the ONT via telnet, log back in and run these commands to change the firmware version on both banks:
```

```sh
# /etc/scripts/flash set OMCI_OLT_MODE 3
OMCI_OLT_MODE=3
# nv setenv sw_custom_version0=V6.0.10N14
# nv setenv sw_custom_version1=V6.0.10N14
```

> Reboot the ONT and check if version was correct applied with this command (take a look at `Version` field):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reboot the ONT and check if the version was correctly applied with this command (take a look at the `Version` field):
```

```sh
# omcicli mib get 7
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
SWImage
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
=================================
EntityID: 0x00
Active: 0
Committed: 0
Valid: 1
*Version: V6.0.10N14*
ProductCode:
ImageHash: 0x00000000000000000000000000000000
=================================
=================================
EntityID: 0x01
Active: 1
Committed: 1
Valid: 1
*Version: V6.0.10N14*
ProductCode:
ImageHash: 0x00000000000000000000000000000000
=================================
```

# Known Bugs

> - Modified image (based on C-5.7.1-DEV3) has Web Gui enabled, but without attached fiber the daemon will crash

Reviewer: in what sense does it crash?

Author: If you call the web page without fiber attached, you will get the first page and the a server error and the boa daemon dies, so only way to restore http server is to start manually or reboot the whole ONT

Reviewer: OK maybe it should be written better

> - Modified image (based on C-5.7.1-DEV3) has Web Gui enabled, but without attached fiber the daemon will crash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Modified image (based on C-5.7.1-DEV3) has the Web UI enabled, but without an attached fiber the daemon will crash
```
